---
layout: post
title:  "Anti-racism in the Form of Research"
date:   2020-06-07
tags: research personal thoughts racism
hidden: false
---

As the pandemic continues to rage, stories of police brutality and unfair racial prejudice rise to the surface. In response to the horrific and needless violence against black people, protests and riots have been swarming all over the nation in support of the black community against racism. With the time to reflect afforded by the lockdowns and the severity of the crimes committed against black Americans, I, like many others, are thinking about ways in which we can address racism.

As a brown man, I cannot truly understand the pain and struggle that so many black people are going through right now and have been going through for the past several centuries. The unbearable hurt and pain that I do feel makes me shudder at how excruciating it must be for the black community.

> "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." &nbsp; Martin Luther King, Jr.

I acknowledge that I have been sitting in the sidelines. At times, I feel as though that as a person of color, I am a victim of racism, which puts me in the position of being helpless in fighting back. But I know that I only think this way to rationalize my passivity. While I am indeed a person of color, I am also a person of privilege, which means that any reason I have for being the sidelines is an excuse that I say to make myself feel better for not being a part of the solution. In the weeks leading up to graduation, we have all been hearing words from older generations saying that as graduates, we now have the power and credibility to change the world for the better. It is our obligation to use the privilege of a Penn education to help humanity.

## What could I possibly do to help now?

I live in a generation that does not take the crimes against black people lightly, and they have inspired me to find out the answer to this question. They are encouraging people to donate to organizations that advocate for black Americans and support those who protest against racism. They raise their voices in the form of peaceful marches, demanding petitions, and incisive critiques of the institutions to which they belong. They promote black literature and art to open our eyes to the injustice we have long-ignored. The importance of these actions cannot be overstated. These actions, with caution, can and should be done now.

A problem as systemic as racism seems to require a solution that is just as infrastructural. While the bursts of protests and donations raise awareness for those with power to change the infrastructure, I wonder: as someone who has no direct influence on infrastructure at the current moment, how can I complement these high-impact, short-term actions with sustained and persistent support of the black community?

## What can I continue to do to help in the future?

I approach this question by first reminding myself what my long-term goals are so that I can align my goals with my efforts to fight against racism. In my journey to ultimately become a professor at the forefront of education reform, I aim to advance the intellectual frontier by finding and understanding the truth while revealing and understanding falsehood. But how does this intellectual frontier help innocent people who are suffering at the hands of policy brutality or the innocent people who are facing the consequences of violent protest?

An obvious answer would be to use my training to study and uncover the mechanisms of racism, especially at a systemic level. In fact, one of the reasons I decided to pursue economics was that as a social science itself, economics positions me directly at the intersection of so many different sciences that directly study discrimination. Perhaps it is in my study of education reform that I highlight how despite being marketed as an equalizer or despite touting meritocratic ideals, our infrastructure disenfranchises marginalized students for reasons beyond their control and consequently privileges the white, male, and heterosexual counterparts. No matter the field I decide to study, I promise to be deliberate in my research to study the problems facing black and marginalized communities. Coupled with my resolve to produce accurate and transparent research, I will produce knowledge that can help those who are finding and implementing solutions to the problems of systemic racism.

But delivering this promise is not enough. I can’t in good conscience sit in an ivory tower and pretend that simply by being a researcher, I will be a part of the solution. Otherwise, I would be extending the distanced support that I’ve done thus far in my life, which is not enough. I need to actively fight against racism and all forms of unjust discrimination while I am a professor. At best, suppose I arrive at research-based, data-driven, empirically and theoretically-proven, experimentally-tested solutions that will be effective when scaled. I might write a couple of papers to justify my proposals. But then what?

## Empathy within Research

In my limited experience as an economist, I recognize that the disciplines of academia can be insular. While the type of economics I want to pursue is all about people, not many people have the desire or the literacy to understand the research. So the only ones who might read and understand my work at the onset would be other economists. In fact, it seems as though most economists write solely for other economists. Of course, I want other economists and social scientists so that they can find flaws in my argument and offer constructive critiques so that I can polish my ideas. But beyond interacting with economists, I will need to create nontechnical summaries and tools to help my research be understood by a wide audience.


*How can I communicate with other social scientists?* I need to learn their language. Appealing to the theme of empathy that resonates with the necessity of consuming black art and literature, I need to consume the research of other scientists. As a member of Penn, I have made friends from other disciplines and have access to a large network of researchers that I believe would be willing to talk with me about their field. I need to actively reach out and take advantage of this network so that I can immerse myself in the understanding of their field. I have already seen the benefits of using my economics POV in settings of social policy and philanthropy, but to provide a more illustrative example, I turn to my experience as a member of the Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship at Yale University. We were a diverse group of 12: 2 were economists, 7 studied applied natural sciences, and 3 were humanists. In reviewing our proposals, manuscripts, and presentations for the program, I gained some experience with the fields of my peers, and they were as interested to talk about their field as I was to listen. Relative to my work as an economist, the humanists were interested in questions that I as an economist would be interested in, especially as they related to discrimination, but their methodology was completely different. While I rely on quantitative data from observational studies and experiments and sometimes qualitative data in the form of surveys, these humanists rely on historical sources. The challenge of finding the right sources, gaining access to these sources, identifying biases in these sources, and compiling all these sources in a meaningful way is so daunting and logistically difficult that I gained a deep admiration for the way that humanists learn and understand the world. This experience also revealed to me the flaws in my own methodology, e.g., the loss of information when distilling human behavior into a matrix of $n$ observations with $k$ variables. I also learned about potential flaws in their methodology, e.g., the risk of generalizing anecdotal evidence. Ultimately, engaging with other disciplines helped me engage further with my own discipline, and I will continue to do so in my attempts to collectively raise our voice against injustice.

*How can I communicate with students?* Since I just graduated from my undergrad, I will limit this discussion to undergraduates and K-12 students, but I think many of these points stand for graduate students as well. As an undergrad and aspiring research, I am often intimidated by the volume of research on which I have to build as well as how advanced the research seems. After all, a good paper is the result a researcher's lifetime of effort, so it is only with that lifetime that one can truly understand that paper. This means that even passionate undergrads and K-12 students who are interested in the social sciences will not understand the papers I write, especially if the main message is buried in the weeds of technicality. Perhaps the passionate student might dare to understand the paper and end up with a dangerous misconception about the field. One way I can actively think about how to present my work to this audience is to incorporate my research and my future colleagues’ research into my classes and lessons. In this way, I can gain direct feedback from this audience about what confused them and about the ways in which I can improve my delivery of information. The trickiest part, especially after I will have graduated with a PhD, is to put myself in their shoes (an apt phrase that transcends this educational context) and think about what they already know.

*How can I communicate with policy makers?* This is perhaps the most important question because what we ultimately want to do is marry the frontier of research and the front lines of decision-making. Since I don’t have much experience working with policy makers, the following discussion is limited in its quality and scope of ideas because I don’t think writing nontechnical summaries of my research is enough. I need to learn more about this audience for me to provide a stronger answer. The best summaries are as effective as the degree to which they are correctly understood by the policy makers. But are policy makers interested in reading academic papers? How does research get into the hands of policy makers? Will writing papers intentionally for this audience be enough for this audience to read them? Or, do we need to change the way in which we disseminate information?

When thinking about the relationship between researchers and policy makers, I am reminded of the terrible incentive structures that are in place in academia and in politics. As I mentioned above, my limited experience in academia lends me to believe that the disciplines in academia are quite insular. Even when some disciplines participate in the discourse of other disciplines, there stands the risk of miscommunication. Hence, the least resistant and more rewarding path is to have greater attention within the disciplines rather than between them. Meanwhile, politicians care about having a career. With the goal of being reelected, politicians have an incentive of sticking with policies that are marketed to be positive but are, in fact, negative because no one likes to highlight their failures during a campaign. I suppose that this is true of all of us: we don't like to give attention to our failures.

But we must if we never want to repeat or exacerbate them. Our humanity demands us to take a critical look at ourselves to address the wrongs we have done to black Americans. This post is just a single step in my personal journey to confront these issues of injustice. I hope it will act as a reminder to deliberately focus on issues that matter, highlight failures and successes honestly, continually re-align incentives to ensure we are uplifting everyone’s interests and not just our own. Even still, this will likely not be enough. But it is the least I can do as an aspiring member of the research community.





<!-- My thoughts on a potential answer stems from my own goals, so what follows are not suggestions for others to follow but for me to consider more deeply. -->
<!-- A problem as systemic as racism seems to require a solution that is just as infrastructural.  -->

<!-- I have known for a while that I want to be an academician whose purpose is to find and understand the truth while decomposing and revealing falsehood. I have always thought that in this purpose, my contribution to society would be advancing the intellectual frontier with objective and careful study. But how does this intellectual frontier help innocent people who are suffering at the hands of policy brutality or the innocent people who are facing the consequences of violent protest? -->
